# WarTwitterAnalysis
Project for the course "Introduction to social media analysis"

The project aims to investigate the diffusion process of Ukraine war topic using hashtags.
Use Twitter API to collect at least 5000 tweets related to hashtags #ukrainewar, #war #army #military #kiev #ua #specialforces #donbass #donbasswar #airsoft #nomockal #warukraine #tactics #azovsea #militarystile #azov #russia #donetsk #soldiers #ukrainenews #odessa #ukrainianarmy #lviv #victory #nato #kyiv #militaryukraine #news #freesentso, but feel free to suggest any other Ukraine war hashtags of your choice if deemed more popular. The key in the collection process is that there is important number of tweets that contain other hashtags as well. It is also important to leave the collection open to other non-English tweets as well to ensure large coverage.
1. Draw a histogram showing the popularity of the main hashtags highlighting the number of tweets per individual hashtag and in another graph the number of distinct Tweet users per individual hashtag.
2. Draw pie chart illustrations showing regional location of the tweets associated to each of the above main hashtags using the location attribute of the tweet (whenever available).
3. Use other pie chart illustrations to show the language of the tweets for each of the above main hashtags.
4. Use VADER tool (https://github.com/cjhutto/vaderSentiment), which output sentiment in terms of POSITIVE, NEGATIVE and NEUTRAL to determine the sentiment of each tweet of the dataset. Then represent the sentiment of each tweet as a point in the ternary plot.
5. We now want to build a social graph where each node corresponds to a hashtag and an edge between hashtag A and hashtag B indicates that there is at least one tweet which contains both hashtag A and hashtag B. Implement a python program that allows you to identify hashtags from Tweet content message and generate the above social network graph.
6. Summarize in a table the main global properties of the above graph: Number of nodes, Number of edges, average degree centrality, diameter, clustering coefficient, size of largest component using appropriate NetworkX functions. Comment on the obtained results highlighting any inherent limitation or characteristic of the data collection process.
7. Plot the degree distribution and local clustering coefficient distribution.
8. Use label propagation algorithm in NetworkX to find communities in the above network. Compare the size of the generated communities and their associated diameter and clustering coefficient in a table. Using your understanding of the name of the hashtag, speculate whether each community can be assigned some interpretation.
9. Now we want to comprehend the key players in the graph whether they are genuine or not. For this purpose, consider the 10 most ranked in terms of degree centrality, and scrutinize the tweets which are linked to those hashtags (10 most ranked). The scrutinizing consists in applying the botometer available in https://github.com/IUNetSci/botometer-python. The program inputs a tweet user id and outputs the probability that the user id is a bot or human. You can use a threshold 0.5 beyond which a program is bot or not. The purpose is therefore to test whether a given user id (Tweet user of the tweet that contains the hashtag) is a bot or not. Draw a relevant plot which shows the proportion of bots in the top ranked hashtag.
10. We would like to test the amount of support assigned to each hashtag. For this purpose use the information about number of retweets and number of replies of each tweet involved in the hashtag and suggest an expression that quantifies the amount of support.
11. Comment the results of the previous steps using some literature from security studies to reinforce your argumentation.
